Dear
viewers, good evening.
The EU did not dare to confiscate
Russia's hundreds of billions of euros,
but will instead burden its citizens
with 90 billion
euros plus interest.
Mr. Kolakušić, how do you
comment on the outcome of the EU summit?
Well, I was hoping that none
of those three options that
they put on the table
would be adopted, but fortunately
we avoided
a serious cause of war.
So, when someone steals 200
billion euros from you,
freezing is one thing.
That has been seen. So, in history
more modern, and earlier around the second
world war etc.
So, we've already seen that. But
we haven't seen money theft yet.
And stealing 200 billion euros is
definitely and certainly
a good reason for war.
Why is someone pushing so hard and why
that part of the leaders of the EU member states
wants to fight with Russia so much and
wants millions
of people to lose their lives,
I just can't wrap my head around it.
And it's even harder for me to
understand how it is possible
that so many EU citizens want to
lose their lives and
want to fight, etc.
War is a terrible situation in
the life of every man,
who has even the slightest contact with
war. So, it's something terrible.
And that so many EU citizens want to
fight, it is
really unbelievable to me.
But well, the least evil happened
as far as the war is concerned.
And the greatest evil in terms of
economic future
of every EU citizen.
Of course, it will affect
poor
countries like Croatia much more,
and somewhat less countries that are, let's
say, much more economically developed.
Well, what happened? It happened
that the EU leaders
indebted 24 EU countries,
except Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic,
at least that's what they say,
for the amount of 90 billion euros that they
want to send irrevocably
to Ukraine.
Now, they say, they say
loan, but who is raising that loan?
Is Ukraine raising it?
Of course not.
EU citizens are raising it. So we are
raising it and we will
have to pay it back.
No one else will pay it back. Well,
where would Ukraine pay it back from?
They say Russia will pay it back, because
it will be responsible for
paying war damages to Ukraine,
so Ukraine will from
that money. Well, like this.
So, let's go back a little to the
basics of law, to
the basic foundations of law.
In order for compensation
for damages to exist, there must also be a war.
forced all the time that the pledge
theoretically impossible that
in any procedure
there is war damage. So, without
a declaration of war, there is no war damage.
Now, how is that possible? That
we still don't have a war.
So, the war can be offensive or
it can be defensive.
What is needed
for a war to even arise?
So, an armed conflict is not
enough for war.
We see countless armed conflicts
every day around the world.
So, America
bombed Syria now.
Is it at war with Syria? No.
Before that, it bombed Iran.
Is it at war with Iran? No.
Because armed conflicts are not war.
War has its own legal definition.
War must be declared by the legitimate
government of a certain country.
So, Russia
says, we are not at war.
We are conducting
a special military action.
A special military operation.
As Putin likes to say.
And Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament,
never
declared a defensive war.
So, compensation for damages in any
legitimate procedure,
cannot occur because there is no war.
So, Russia and
Ukraine are not formally at war,
because neither party
in the conflict has declared it.
So, let's formally
legally forget
the situation that can never actually
happen,
and that is that Russia would in any
variant pay war damages.
So, Russia would have to be
completely defeated and crushed,
and if it is completely
defeated and crushed,
then there is nowhere to pay from.
But in order for Russia to be completely
crushed and defeated,
Europe would certainly not exist,
because it would disappear in a nuclear war.
Therefore, these are not realities.
That money will go irrevocably,
90 billion euros will go irrevocably
to Ukraine,
and that will be paid by EU citizens.
EU citizens, many think that
the situation is great in the EU,
that there is money to
throw around etc.
The EU is already heavily indebted.
It's not that there is no money,
but it is heavily indebted
and cannot return
even current debts.
As I have said countless times,
Macron himself pointed out,
because we were not
able to pay
even the first installment of
these 800 billion euros,
which amounts to 30 billion.
And why didn't we?
Because the total EU budget
is 200 billion,
150 billion goes to payments,
which means there isn't even a cent there,
not a cent for any
new borrowing.
And we see in the future,
so we now have a future
seven-year period,
in which the budget,
so the seven-year budget
is 2000 billion,
and the annual budgets
will amount to
300 billion euros each year.
So, 30% more
than the budget for 25.
or 100% more than
the budget for 2016.
Where does the money come from in the EU budget?
Exclusively from citizens.
So only from citizens,
it comes from
the budget of each country.
So, and the budget
is filled exclusively,
it is filled by citizens from each country.
So, that money, those 90 billion,
will be paid by
EU citizens,
but what are the citizens paying it for?
For the continuation of the war.
That money is not enough,
because Ukraine
said that every day of the war
costs 170 million euros.
So, for a war like this
that has been waged so far,
not that Ukraine would be
several times more powerful,
but that the balance of power on the ground
would be exactly the same
as it is today, so that's
66 billion euros per year.
So, from next year we will
have to send 90 billion
and so on ad infinitum.
That's how the
leaders of the EU member states imagined it.
The latest data is that only
the interest on that debt
of 90 billion euros will amount to 3
billion euros per year.
Yes, and with us those billions are
like some peanuts.
So, in 10 years
that's 30 billion for you.
30 billion for only 10 years.
On those 800 billion that we
raised, it's 8 billion for you,
then it's 11 for you
billion per year.
Then it's 110 for you
billion in 10 years.
And all those loans.
So, the EU not only will no longer be able
to pay installments soon,
but it won't be able to pay even the interest.
Let alone installments?
All citizens should be
aware of that.
They say, yo, we are
the richest, we are.
We used to be the richest.
We used to be much
of what the EU is no longer.
In 4 years, the face of the EU
has changed enormously.
Many citizens do not see this change
yet in the standard.
They see that the standard is somewhat better.
But this is solely about
the fact that the EU
to private small banks,
in all EU countries,
allowed to indefinitely,
indefinitely, through loans,
place non-existent money.
And given that there is very little money,
real money, in circulation,
citizens still do not
understand what is happening.
But, unfortunately,
they will understand very quickly.
The other day we were discussing whether
the Belgian Prime Minister would give in under
pressure from Ursula von der Leyen.
It turned out that the man has a spine.
Were you surprised that Belgium
has a Prime Minister and a government that is
ready to take care of
the interests of its citizens,
and not the interests of those
who are leading the EU today?
I must admit that
it surprised me greatly.
It surprised me greatly.
I know something about the Belgian
history recently,
where they failed for seven years
to form a government at all.
One Brussels is
divided into seven cities.
So, here you have one side of the street
one government, the other
side of the street another government.
So, there are constantly
two types of police.
It's simply an army.
So, we almost had a state
coup recently in Belgium.
So, it's not easy, because
we have a strong French side
and a strong Dutch side that
want, let's say, want to separate.
So, there is no, in
parliament there is no discussion,
every, so, Dutch representative
speaks in Dutch,
French and no French.
So, there is no discussion there in
a way that one would want
the other side to understand you.
But you don't care
what the other side...
So, it is a country very
similar to our Bosnia and Herzegovina.
It's not honey and
milk far from it.
But it is a country where
all EU institutions are located
and which is very common and very susceptible
to the wishes of EU leaders and
the EU Commission and so on
and all those nebulous decisions
that the EU Commission makes
and presents
to the public, von der Leyen.
So, I was extremely surprised
by such persistence.
So, it is
persistence of the Orban type.
So, they
put a mark on his head
ten days ago and said
you personally will be responsible,
Belgium will bear
huge consequences
if you don't agree to it.
However, when it was
seen that there is
someone else too,
meaning an unbreakable part
which refers to
Hungarians, Slovaks, Czechs,
Italy, which has some of its own
special interests,
so here we have
Meloni being celebrated to the skies
at that meeting, and
she at that meeting
didn't even ask for the floor,
nor did she say a single sentence.
But she is celebrated because she
managed to stop
the conclusion of the agreement with
Mercosur for two weeks.
That is, that's
hypocrisy and that madness
of the European Union, where
they, well, they have now pulled out
and are celebrating Meloni who
didn't do anything.
So, she absolutely
didn't do anything,
didn't say anything, and
it's unbelievable.
And they want to trample
a Belgian prime minister
who saved
the entire European Union.
Saved the European Union.
Both economically and from a very
possible military conflict,
and from everything.
Hungary, Slovakia and
Czech Republic have exempted themselves
from this loan and
their citizens should not
repay this debt.
That means that
Croatia will have an increased installment.
How do you comment on that?
Well, Croatia, with
regard to having such a person
at the head of the government as it has,
it means that if they say we have to pay 5
billion per year,
we would pay 5 billion.
So, it's simply like that.
And such, meaning such
prime ministers and presidents
are, unfortunately, in
most other EU countries.
There are very few people with an attitude,
very few sovereign politicians
who have first in their mind and in
economic terms
the interest of their people.
There are no interests here at all.
So, in Croatia, except to be a small
susceptible little puppet
that listens to everything it is ordered to do.
Some citizens think that's okay,
because, well, we now
live great and so on.
But, my dear citizens, it is
such an enormous debt.
It's unbelievable.
Debts must always be repaid at
a certain point.
So, we had that
situation in Croatia
when we had over a million tops,
when we had over
300,000 blocked.
And then all the
other citizens said
oh, they got into debt and now
because of cell phones, TVs,
who is to blame,
who is to blame.
Well, we can all say that.
It's all our fault, who is to blame,
because we got so
insanely indebted.
So, buying apartments
for hundreds of thousands of euros,
cars for
tens of thousands and so on.
When a crisis comes, it doesn't ask.
So, Plenković agrees to any
indebtedness, even in billions.
And there are no
questions asked there.
But every single debt must be repaid.
However, I am not really convinced that
the debts will not be repaid
by either Hungarians or
Slovaks or Czechs.
I'm not really convinced.
So, one thing is
stories, one thing is platitudes,
and another thing is when it comes
and says pay, you won't pay.
Aha, then you won't get
a cent for agriculture,
you won't get anything.
So, that word, meaning that, the word
in the EU means nothing.
And that's what distinguishes a
Japan, a Russia from the EU.
There the word means everything, but here
the spoken word does not mean,
and the given word does not
mean absolutely anything.
So, I am not convinced that they will be fully
exempted
from paying those 90
plus, plus, plus, plus.
Because interest accrues every year.
So, the EU cannot repay that debt
before it reaches
an amount of 200 billion euros.
Certainly not.
So, there is no chance that we will pay it back in
less than 20 years, 30.
There's no chance at all.
Because we will constantly be getting into debt
on other sides as well.
That is the problem with these loans.
Ukraine receives these 90 billion
euros, but that doesn't mean
a stronger military power for Ukraine
given that most of it goes to
order to the functioning of the state.
Is it reasonable to conclude that
militarily, Ukraine in 2026 will
enter in a worse condition
despite this help?
Ukraine got nothing.
How would Ukraine get anything?
Where would Ukraine
get those 90 billion?
Well, first you need to find some banks that
will give a loan of
those 90 billion.
First, those banks need to accept
guarantees and so on.
As I already said,
a word means nothing.
Now imagine that the European
Commission comes to a bank.
Says we will pay you back.
All banks will say,
you are ridiculous.
You have problems repaying even
this debt of 800 billion.
Forget it.
Let's see what you will
seriously give us as collateral.
That's why it's been
forciralo da zalog
is that real money.
So those real
securities from Russia.
Because that is real value.
And based on that
you can get a loan.
And we'll see what the European
Union will offer the banks so that
they would give it a loan.
Clearly, but as for the military strength
of Ukraine, will it be in 2026
the same, bigger or smaller
than last year?
Well, in some time, it means
Ukraine will definitely
get those 90 billion.
It will be paid out.
And as I mentioned, it means 60
billion is needed to maintain
this type of war that it is waging.
And in this type of war, Ukraine
loses territory every day.
So every single day, for several
years, Ukraine has been losing territory.
That is simply inevitable.
Although the forces on the ground of soldiers are
completely equalized,
meaning the amount of ammunition,
ballistic missiles and everything
that is
incomparably on the side of Russia.
Because Russia produces more
missiles and bullets than the entire
European Union combined.
And Ukraine and everyone together. I mean
several times more.
If the current peace process
fails, is there a chance that
Russia will further expand its
territorial claims
in relation to Ukrainian territory?
Well, in my opinion, I always
like to use healthy logic.
Because you can't get to some
real information.
All the time in the media and
Reuters and all our media talk about
some anonymous sources.
Bla, bla, bla. Those are all
made up stories.
But common sense and
healthy logic says this.
Looking at what and how Putin is doing,
how the war is developing and so on.
I think Zelensky is right when
he said that now
the Russians will go for Odessa.
I think he's 100% right.
The Russians wanted... I mean this plan
that Trump put together where they would
even give up
part of the Donetsk region.
They would not continue in
Zaporozhye and would return.
So, they would not advance a single millimeter
more militarily.
So, rather than in a peaceful process
they would ask to be handed over part
of the Donetsk region that they have not yet
always conquered.
So, Odessa in full and
Ukraine's access to the Black Sea would be
completely left alone.
Because is that the Russian advance
from two something years ago when
they conquered Kherson,
and Kherson is mean
very close to Odessa.
So, the aerial distance from this
last point held on Crimea
Russia is only 50 km to Odessa.
So, Russia has already conquered 1000
km when we draw a line like this
the length of Ukraine.
So, it's about
a very small territory.
And we must know that there
very close is also Transnistria.
That is the area of Moldova
that has fought for its, let's
put it that way, its
some independence.
And which is a very long area
that is the border, that is
Moldova with Ukraine.
And it's all very, very close.
I mean, extremely close.
There are not located
some large numbers.
For now, there is located
1,500 Russian soldiers.
Soldiers that can be added
to that number from that
area of Transnistria.
Another 4.5-5 thousand. So all
6,000 soldiers.
But that number can grow in
one day to
20-30 thousand soldiers.
Which is extremely,
extremely large force.
So I think,
using logic,
that given that Ukraine is certainly
continuing to wage war.
Now. Because they will get 90 billion.
Ukraine will not want any peace
in which it has to
give up territory.
Otherwise, why did it
get 90 billion?
It continues the war.
Putin will say, okay.
You are provoking. You are targeting our
ships in the Black Sea, etc.
Now you won't do that anymore.
So, the coast of Ukraine near Odessa,
because there are large
bays in that area,
is connected to you by bridges.
Putin is now targeting
those bridges all the time.
So, this has been happening
intensely for the last two days.
I think Putin will cut
Ukraine off from access to the Black Sea
and will connect
all the way to Transnistria.
So, that's
a distance of 50 km as the crow flies.
However, in order
to conquer that area,
a much larger area
must be conquered.
Much larger.
So, you have to cross the Dnieper
conquer Kherson,
you have to go up
all the way to Mykolaiv,
which is a big city.
So, that's about 200 km.
That's a very large area and it's
very difficult to conquer.
However, apart from Mykolaiv, there are no
other large cities
and fortresses and so on.
So, it's a huge and demanding
job for the Russian army,
which we see is not
progressing very quickly.
But, given that Ukraine wants
to wage war for another two years,
then, what will be very easy for Putin
to explain to his citizens,
means, Ukraine wants at least
two more years of war,
and then he will say, my dear
citizens, two more
years we have to fight,
let's conquer what...
Let's finish this story completely.
Let's take the entire Black Sea,
let's go to the Ukrainians,
and why will it be
much easier for Putin to conquer Odessa
than some other parts?
Because in Odessa
lives, like in most of these,
and in Crimea and conquered,
a lot of Russian population.
So, there, we can say,
Russian is mostly spoken.
And what else happened recently,
means in Odessa, a month ago,
the mayor of Odessa, who was 11
years was the mayor of Odessa,
is...
Zelenskyy
stripped him of his citizenship.
Look, citizenship is
being taken away there,
from own citizens
on the production line.
A month ago he
stripped him of his citizenship.
Why?
Because he has no choice.
So, he can't fire him,
because now we are going to the elections,
because they have that law
that they don't want to change,
that there are no elections in wartime.
And he to the man,
after 11 years,
if he was the war mayor of Odessa for 3 years,
the war mayor of Odessa,
he strips him of his citizenship,
not so that there
would be some deputy,
mayor,
or someone else,
but so that Zelenskyy
can directly appoint a military administration.
So, that was
before Trump's peace.
That is very important.
If this
Trump peace proposal
were to be accepted by both sides,
would Odessa and
the Ukrainian Black Sea coast
be safe in
the next 50-100 years
given that Ukraine would get
American guarantees?
Well, in 50 or 100 years
no one can know what will happen.
That's the one who says
guaranteed what will
be in 50 years
on this, that, all that,
cat's tail, that's nothing.
The world is developing in five years.
So, the EU managed to destroy
itself economically in five years.
So, literally destroy.
And so, what about 50 years
we don't know.
But for one
period of 20 years
we can say for sure.
So, for sure.
Um, well, I doubt
that in 20 years
Putin will still be in power.
He will have a lot of years already
if he will be alive.
The same with Trump.
The same with many leaders.
Today they will no longer be alive.
Um, because of the simple nature
of human life.
So, it is certain that Russia
would not expand in
the next 10-20 years
to Odessa and for taking,
means, taking away Ukraine's
complete access to the Black Sea.
And taking away Ukraine,
means, access to the Black Sea,
that's what we can
say, write off the house.
Economy, this and that.
So, we can immediately write off
50% of the economy.
Immediately.
The same moment.
So, the impossibility
of economic development
in a 50% write-off.
Unfortunately, that's how it is.
So, by signing this peace,
but of course, even without
regard to this financing,
you really have to
be, like, a president
who has full legitimacy to
sign that peace.
To mention that peace and for
Zelensky to sign it,
that is a dead letter, because
Zelensky has no legitimacy.
He is not the president of Ukraine.
So, a signature from
his side means nothing.
However, after that there are elections, so
then that peace
should also be confirmed.
And those elections, whatever they may be with
theft, manipulation,
because we know that Zelensky banned
several dozen
opposition parties.
We see that he takes away
citizenship, etc., from every
politician he doesn't like.
Those certainly wouldn't be 100%
legitimate elections, but they would be
some kind of elections.
They are not legitimate elections, they are not in
Croatia, they always
steal 2-3% when they need it,
but they would be somewhat legitimate.
So, elections for which we could
say that the person who was elected
into the Ukrainian Rada,
that that president is legitimate,
that those mayors are legitimate.
Or, here it is, so, it's not just
the same as the mandate
of the president in Zelensky's case,
but also, elections haven't been held for
two years either
for the Ukrainian Rada,
at least the Ukrainian Rada.
Based on the Constitution, it has the right, that is
the only legitimate government,
because the Constitution gives it the right to
continue to wage war in case,
to continue to exercise legitimate
power in case of war.
Which, of course, is not written for the
president in any word.
Which means, we have
a Rada that has legitimacy,
but that legitimacy in the case
of peace must be confirmed in elections.
So, what will we see?
So, I don't
believe that Zelensky will,
because Zelensky is
like this, an eternal president,
a man who disposes of hundreds
of billions of euros.
So, what does he care
about hundreds of thousands killed?
What does he care?
So, he disposes of hundreds
of billions of euros.
Is Trump perhaps aware that if
Ukraine does not accept this peace,
that the continuation of the war would also bring
the continuation of Russian demands
and that there would be no more
chance of peace
until the final
capitulation of one of the parties?
Trump is aware that
that will be the end of the war,
because then Russia will truly
conquer everything that Ika wanted.
So, I think at the same time, I even
think it is
perhaps easier for them to conquer
both Odessa and that part of the story than
the rest of Donetsk.
That story is over.
So, the Russian conquest then in
fully ends
and Trump is aware of that as well.
So, this blathering about
Russia wanting the EU,
this and that, I mean what does it have that
Russia wants the Baltic states,
what is there in a Lithuania,
Latvia, Estonia,
what is there, there is nothing there.
So, it is so interesting
zero, absolute zero.
That was part of the Soviet Union,
because the Russians came to Berlin.
But to go
conquering it, what would they do with it?
Completely irrelevant.
So, and as for Odessa, so,
who founded Odessa?
Well, one of the greatest Russian
Empresses, Catherine the Great.
So, it's simple, M is
the population there.
M is this, M now
Ukrainians do not want peace.
Because it is very, in my opinion, very
likely that
Putin will go to conquer Odessa.
Very, very, very likely.
Peace talks continue
between Russia and the USA.
However, do they still make any
sense when
Ukraine received the desired money,
and Zelensky said that
Donbas cannot be discussed.
There is not much interest for Trump now.
Too much interest for Trump now.
So, now his interest, I
think that
it has decreased by 30 to 40 percent
compared to 2 to 3 weeks ago.
So, his plan was complex
so that he would make peace immediately.
That Putin would be satisfied, and that
Ukraine relatively
can be satisfied.
And Zelensky and so on.
Now that Zelensky has received the money,
and not only did he
receive it this year,
he knows that he will
get it next year.
So, he will get 180 billion
euros that he will never
have to return.
I don't believe he can anymore...
So, how will he now tell even
his citizens?
Here, we have received 180 billion euros
for the continuation of the war,
which we will not get
if the war doesn't continue.
So, if we agree now to
peace, there are no 180 billion euros.
What's the point then?
So, this is financing the war.
This is Ursula and
the team sent to Zelensky,
not for the reconstruction of Ukraine,
but for the continuation of the war.
They said, we are sending money, Putin
must be defeated.
That's money for war.
What is the purpose of the narratives that
are spreading that Russia intends to
attack further in Europe,
including members of the NATO Alliance?
Who is spreading such narratives and why?
These 90 billion, 180 billion,
at least 25 billion will surely
end up within the myth,
within the European Union.
So, bribery and corruption will
eat up at least 25 billion there.
So, spreading fear and that, then
people don't look.
Just like with the Covid pandemic.
Who cared that Ursula
pocketed 50 billion euros,
put it in her pocket or several
hundreds of millions of euros?
When people were afraid, she is our
saving vaccine,
will save us, everyone will die if
she doesn't buy vaccines.
It's the same here.
We will all die if Putin
comes here, he will kill us all.
Well, we have that legendary, that
incredible, I don't know
the exact name of the island in Japan.
I know it, then I forget it, here, at
this moment I can't remember.
When all the residents of that island
committed only
murder, threw themselves slitica,
when the Americans landed.
Because they kept filling their
heads that these will
rape them, kill them with knives.
And so on, so these rather
chose to throw themselves slitica.
That was like a better death for them.
Well, it's the same here.
Non-stop scaring the population.
The more we borrow, the more
bribes we take and the better for us.
And European mainstream media
notice that European efforts
for Ukraine to win this war
are actually non-existent.
These 90 billion euros are not
actually enough
for anything concrete,
except to continue the same pace in
which Ukraine is losing territory.
Exactly. So, today's
most modern weapon
costs in the billions.
So, billions. Hundreds
of millions and billions a piece.
One piece.
So, those are weapons that could
change the course of the war.
But who has that
money to pay for it at all?
So, no one has that money. So,
those figures are just Americans anyway
who hold those prices. So, that
B2, I think it's called that,
costs 750 million dollars. So,
who would buy that... unarmed?
Not armed. So, armed it's
over a billion and something.
So, who can pay for that?
America doesn't even
sell it to anyone, of course.
So, this conventional weapon and
everything that Ukraine receives
cannot in any way
change the course of the war.
So, both Ukraine and Russia are in
some kind of tie when it comes to
these drones on optical cables.
So, which are already flying
for several kilometers.
They say they can also fly several tens.
Kilometers, so, which
cannot be stopped,
because the signal goes through the optical cable.
So, no
electromagnetic interference,
which we know now,
is unusable.
Of course, the signal through
optical cable can also be interfered with.
Of course, like any signal that
travels through anything.
But there is no technology for that
interference at the moment.
Everything else is, so, some kind of tie.
Except it's not a tie,
so, the number of soldiers is also a tie.
Everything is a tie there.
So, the fortification
one on the other side.
What is not a tie is the number of
ballistic missiles.
And what is not a tie is the number of
cruise missiles.
The Russians are
several times ahead there.
And because of that, they will continue
to conquer what they have imagined.
Plus what they have now told me,
enough is enough.
Now you are shooting at us and these
ships, merchant
ships in the Black Sea.
Now we will take you away from the sea.
We will remove Odessa from you.
We will take Odessa, which we have always
considered a Russian city.
And we will take over that territory.
And now we will expand.
So, they will not bring in the Constitution, because
they wanted to leave it to Ukraine.
So, when you bring someone to the point where
it's life or death,
so, that man and that
state is a hundred times stronger.
Than when you
leave him that some kind of exit.
And that's why Russia deliberately didn't
take the entire
territory to Moldova,
meaning, the entire coast, in order to
completely deprive
Ukraine of access to the sea.
And it didn't annex it to Russia, but
left it to them
precisely for that reason.
Because that's how it's done,
smart people do it that way.
You don't bring someone, some people, to
the end where they will then
fight with all their might.
And to the last drop of blood.
However, now Putin will
do that, in my opinion.
He will do it.
He will start conquering Odesa as well.
In Europe, they have been hoping for
the collapse of the Russian economy
that would stop the war for years.
However, CNN also reports that the
Russian economy is in such a state
that Russia can
continue this war for years to come.
Those are literally
the words of experts from CNN.
As for resources,
internal economy, etc.
Russia can wage war forever.
It cannot wage war forever in terms
of population and soldiers.
So, that is a
resource that is expendable.
However, Russia can
start a total war.
Meaning, war with nuclear weapons.
Meaning, it can raze
Ukraine to the ground.
Meaning, so that it doesn't lose a single
single soldier.
So, that option is very possible.
I mean, not very possible in
the sense that it will happen.
I misspoke. It
is theoretically possible.
I don't believe it is
possible in real life.
But it is theoretically possible.
So, if Russia fires
20 nuclear bombs
and razes half of Ukraine to the ground,
will NATO join the war?
No. It certainly won't.
There's no discussion.
Will the EU member states join the war?
Absolutely not.
So, Russia can destroy
the population and territory of Ukraine
with the force at its disposal.
It cannot conquer Ukraine with the classic military route,
meaning this way of warfare,
and regardless of that enormous superiority
in ballistic missiles and
cruise missiles.
It cannot conquer Ukraine.
It cannot conquer it.
Simply, it cannot conquer it.
Because it's the same balance of power.
And if Russia, instead of these
900,000 soldiers now,
reaches 2 million soldiers,
Ukraine can also reach
2 million soldiers.
So, nothing will
change there.
So, the balance of power remains the same there.
Economic, meaning,
the whole time it is thought,
and it is talked about, and many people
really believe in it,
that the EU is the center of the world.
The EU and the member states of the EU are one of
the most desirable
tourist destinations,
and that's it.
And nothing more than that.
The French make good wines,
but believe me,
the Australians make them too,
and the Chileans, and so on, so,
it's all good, the world
can do without those wines.
The Germans make great luxury
cars,
Mercedes, Porsche,
but those who have seen the latest
Chinese cars,
meaning, there is only
a little brand left.
And that's it.
Just brand anymore.
Of course the brand is worth something,
Louis Vuitton, this, that.
But even brands,
those are brands that interest
such a small number of the population,
who can afford it.
A very small number.
Most people will immediately take those
Chinese cars,
and they won't miss it at all,
neither those Mercedes,
nor those Porsches,
nor those BMWs.
So, the European Union has ceased
to be the center of the world.
Simply, on the
ground, it has ceased.
Russia has now turned to
6 billion inhabitants.
And now we have, meaning,
Merkosur is very important here,
that free trade relationship with
the European Union,
which Melonica managed to
postpone for two weeks.
And when Melonica goes to conclude that,
she will see what war is
on the streets of Italy,
like we've seen these days.
In Belgium, farmers,
in France, etc.
export without tariffs to the European Union,
everything that is produced in
Brazil, in Argentina,
that will be very interesting.
So, where is the biggest why
Germany is pushing so hard?
I've gotten away from Russia a little now,
but it's all connected.
If the European
Union doesn't go with Merkosur,
there is an even greater export on the other side
and even differently,
together with Russia and China.
And now the question is
what will they agree on.
Because probably the same
conditions will be given to them by Russia as well.
So maybe Russia will say now,
I will pay you more.
Who knows what will happen?
These are now some other
topics and other relationships,
but it is very crucial.
So, Germany wants
to sell cars,
but currently there is a 35% tariff on
German and European cars.
And believe me, they don't buy
too many Citroens and Peugeots there,
but they like it there
Golfs, BMWs and so on.
And because of that, Germany
extremely advocated
90 billion to be
for the war in Ukraine to be given,
because the German Rajhenmetal
will take at least 20 billion of that.
At least 20 billion will go
to Rajhenmetal and so on.
And so in that free trade with
Argentina, Brazil,
German car manufacturers will also earn a lot of money
German car manufacturers.
And the French are against it, of course,
and the Dutch, even more so the Belgians.
So, the Belgians
have risen a lot.
I haven't followed whether the Dutch farmers
have risen as much,
which would be logical, but they will
certainly rise.
These are all closely related interests.
Now let's go back to Russia.
So, Russia has
everything it needs.
It has food, it has all the minerals.
It has steel, it has
coal, it has oil, it has gas.
Yes, well, it doesn't have these Mercedes, but
you put that 2 euro badge
that you order through
eBay or Alibaba.
Alibaba, since I doubt
they order through eBay.
From Alibaba and you put it on
the latest Chinese car.
It looks like space.
So, comfort,
performance of those cars.
That is the highest possible level.
Nothing can
produce a better Mercedes.
Nothing better car.
Than what China can produce.
That is a thing of the past.
If this peace process dies
and Russia moves towards Odessa,
and why Zelenski himself
said that is Russia's goal,
what happens then?
That is then a new
massive escalation.
Russia is expanding its demands.
How does the EU position itself at that
moment?
Does it offer a new loan
of 300 billion euros?
What awaits us then?
In my opinion, it is
then the certain end of the war.
Unless these
lunatics, as they are in the EU,
don't cause some incident to
start a war with Russia,
the certain end of the war.
Russia will be
a huge winner in that war,
because it has developed strong ties with
the rest of the world,
with several billion people and
consumers on the other side.
It has lost good relations with
the rest of Europe for
50-60 years for sure.
It will remain in status quo with the United
American states,
as it was during the Cold War.
Ukraine becomes
the loser of losers.
It will have a completely destroyed country,
which will no longer be
interesting to anyone at all,
neither the EU, nor anyone.
Because they will have with Mercosur,
which means grain and everything else
will come from there.
Ukraine will be
very little interesting.
Ukraine has gas, well, okay.
Trade will develop there.
However, all people
constantly forget
that Ukraine
has been conducting
Russian gas through its territory all the time.
So, that is all the time
time is forgotten.
What hypocrites? What is that?
You know, we want to stop
financing the war in Russia,
and we buy Russian
gas that is transported
through Ukraine and to which
Russia pays a commission.
So, that is
the twilight of common sense,
honesty, morality, everything.
So, everything that exists.
Everything that distinguishes
a man from an animal.
So, we have come very
close to animals here,
even though they have those fundamental and
fundamental rules.
We don't stick to
any rules anymore.
So, just lies,
hypocrisy and fraud.
So, in my opinion, the certain end of the war.
The certain end of the war.
Because Russia has nothing more
it can want.
So, it has humiliated
Ukraine to the end.
And that humiliation of Ukraine started
when they trampled on the law.
So, when they went to replace
the legally elected
president in the elections.
And then when they militarily harassed,
killed Russians in
Donbas and so on.
So, now they have that
Russia wants to return.
And Russia will have, you mean, what
it has always wanted.
Odesa, Crimea, I mean, that is the desire
of Russia since the breakup
of the Soviet Union.
The Russians will get everything.
It will be in some
cold relationship with Europe.
They have confirmed their strength in weapons
and economic power.
And in relation to
the United States of America.
They have developed the latest weapons
generation Bure Vestnik,
which they would never have developed, had it not
come to this situation.
Because those drones and those optical
cables can be developed.
Absolutely every
state for itself.
That's nothing.
That's when a gun goes to detect you.
That is absolutely irrelevant.
But Bure Vestnik is something that no one
else will develop.
Certainly another decade.
Well, we see that America has not succeeded
in developing its own rocket
to send something into space.
But it had to for a decade
use Russian rockets as well,
and now it also uses Musk's rockets.
They still don't have it.
We are the ones from one American
states do not have a rocket that can
send something into space.
And now they will then develop a rocket
with nuclear propulsion.
They will, but it will
take them ten years.
Is there a chance that in the next
month or two, how much will this
peace process
last at most,
that Ukraine recognizes that possible
moment, that danger
of further escalation
and to return to the peace agreement
of President Trump
as something that is bad, but
inevitable at this moment?
After they receive these 90 billion,
and they will still realize it, but according to
me, they will certainly realize it,
the chance for peace does not exceed 1%.
Mr. Kolakušić,
thank you for this conversation
on the topic of
the consequences of the European Summit
and the possibility of further escalation
in case of complete
failure of peace efforts
of the United States of America.
Thank you once again.
Thank you too.